The first type of windowing we'll discuss is the tumbling window.
A tumbling window is a fixed period of time that
rolls over after that first fixed window has ended.
Tumbling windows don't overlap and there's never a gap between the windows.
Let's see an example of this.
Lets say we define a tumbling window of
15 minutes and started running [inaudible] application right now.
Each 15 minute time window will identify a series of events,
and aggregate those events during a time period.
When that time we know ends,
all the data is evicted from the window and we're
just left with what's in an upcoming newest window.
One more thing I just want to point out before I move on,
since we have this visualization in front of us,
you can see for each one of these windows that they butt up against each other,
but they don't overlap.
So events from window 1 will not be present in window 2,
and events from window 2 will not be present in window 3 and so on.
So just keep that in mind,
these windows don't overlap and there is no gap between them.